the Israeli military has just released
its report on the killing of the seven
employees of the world Central Kitchen
Aid group in Gaza on Monday for more on
this we'll bring in our correspondent
Rory Chalin joining us from occupied
East Jerusalem so what have we learned
from this
Rory well we have learned that this was
a according to the Israelis a grave
mistake and they have just put out their
initial assessment uh into the incident
uh which has already been shared with
the world Central Kitchen it's also been
shared with the embassies of the
countries uh whose uh citizens were
killed uh in that air strike uh and now
it has just been released to the public
it's basically been de
embargoed and what this report says it's
been carried out by uh the uh joint fact
finding mechanism of The Joint Chiefs of
sta led by Major General yov har who's
the major general in the
reserves what they've said is that this
was the result of a misidentification of
the target they say that they thought
that there was an armed fighter on one
of these a trucks and then when the uh
uh Convoy got to the warehouse they
thought there was another armed fighter
that left on the Convoy from the
warehouse they say they didn't identify
the trucks as being associated with the
world Central Kitchen despite the fact
as we know already uh from the world
Central Kitchen that they have been
updating the Israeli military all the
way uh on their on their mission and
supposedly the Israeli military knew
exactly where they were so this report
says that the strike was a serious
violation of the commands and of the
military standard oper operating
procedures and it shouldn't have
occurred what they're going to do about
it well heads are rolling basically um
they uh the the military's Chief of
Staff has decided that the Brigade fire
supports commander who is a major he is
going to be dismissed the brigade's
chief of staff who was the colonel is
also going to be dismissed and then
there are going to be reprimands for the
Brigade support commander and the 162nd
Division commander and a reprimand uh
for the commander of the entire uh
Southern command they finish this uh
initial report by saying the the IDF
will learn lessons and incorporate them
into its ongoing operations so it's an
apology it's uh you know it's it's
dismissals and it's saying that they
will endeavor not to make the same
mistakes again that's is where this
report takes us right and Rory I mean to
just put s things in context here there
was a lot of international pressure on
Israel after this in ident was there not
and particularly a lot of people say
because the killings involved foreign
aid workers in
Gaza well exactly I mean this seems to
have been something of a watershed uh in
this war we have certainly seen from
Israel's friends and allies around the
world uh the condemnation uh following
this incident that perhaps they weren't
willing to extend to the thousands and
thousands and thousands of deaths of
Palestinians that you could say might
have been killed in similarly erroneous
uh conditions or or situations but
because these uh people were foreigners
because you know they had they came from
countries like the UK uh like Poland
Canada the United States um governments
that have been you know in the past very
friendly towards Israel they're angry
and they're annoyed and so they are
putting pressure on Israel uh to respond
so this response I think is Israel
hoping that it is uh drawing a line
under this incident what we're not
seeing uh in this report is that there
are going to be any legal prosecutions
against these people now that might come
in the future but that's certainly not
contained in this this this report what
we get is dismissals from positions and
Military reprimands but that's not
necessarily Justice uh for the people
for the families and friends of those
who died okay Rory thank you for that
update from occupied East Jerusalem